Accountability feature (#81)
autonity/docs.autonity.org: content/docs/reference/api/aut/op-prot/_index.md

- a `Rewarded` event for each staking reward distribution, logging: recipient address `addr` and reward amount `amount`.
- a `NewEpoch` event signalling the beginning of a new epoch, logging: unique identifier for the new epoch `epochID`.

###  finalize (Accountability Contract)

The Accountability Contract finalisation function, called at each block finalisation as part of the state finalisation function [`finalize`](/reference/api/aut/op-prot/#finalize). The function checks if it is the last block of the epoch, then:

- On each block, tries to [promote accusations](/reference/api/aut/op-prot/#promote-guilty-accusations) without proof of innocence into misconducts. Accusations without a valid innocence proof are considered guilty of the reported misconduct and a new fault proof is created if the fault severity is higher than that of any previous faults already committed by the validator in the current epoch.

{{% alert title="Note" %}}
Protocol only applies an accountability slashing for the fault with the highest severity committed in an epoch.
{{% /alert %}}

- On epoch end, [performs slashing tasks](/reference/api/aut/op-prot/#perform-slashing-tasks).

> #### promote guilty accusations

Reviewer: This section is a clear example of list misuse.

Author: I've revised this usage in commit 404e0ac665fe78ddd0f542e473ba62b0f9721ca6.

Reviewer: So much better

For each accusation the protocol:

- checks the proof submission window for an accusation has expired and if so then attempts to promote the accusation into a misbehaviour fault:
- if a fault with a higher severity than the accusation for the epoch already exists, the accusation is dropped
- else, a new fault is created from the accusation and the slashing history of the validator is updated to record the new fault severity.

How it works:

> - accountability proof submissions are submitted and placed into `accusation` and `innocence` queues stored in memory. The `innocence` queue is ordered by time of submission

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Accusations are placed into the `accusation` queue stored in memory. 
```

Innocence proofs do not interact with the guilty promotion process

- as the function executes it takes each `Accusation` proof from the accusations queue and:
  - checks if the sum of the block number at which the accusation was reported and the number of blocks in the proof innocence window is greater than the current block number (`_ev.reportingBlock + INNOCENCE_PROOF_SUBMISSION_WINDOW > block.number`):

>   <!-- - if greater than, then the `InnocenceProof` submission is considered stale and ignored, and the function continues to the next `InnocenceProof` in the queue is tested. -->

Reviewer: Please remove commented out content

Author: This has been done, I forgot to note that on this comment.

I have generally checked for this and in commit 3abf4756763bf6722e4298e9b85af71a0856b3d2 I have been through the Autonity Contract Interface page and removed legacy commented out Node JS Console examples.

  - if less than, accusation remains
  - if greater than, the accusation is removed from the queue (i.e. deleted) and its fault severity is determined. The function checks the slashing history of the validator to determine if the validator already has a proven offence (i.e. a `FaultProof`) with a severity `>=` to the `Accusation`'s reported fault:
    - if true, then the `Accusation` is skipped: a `FaultProof` with a higher severity has already been reported during the epoch
    - if false, then:
      - the validator's slashing history is updated to record the severity of the accusation, so the history records the highest fault severity applied to the validator during the epoch
      - a new `FaultProof` is created for the validator and added to the slashing queue
      - a `FaultProof` event is emitted logging the event.

The reported validator will be silenced and slashed for the fault at the end of the current epoch.

#### perform slashing tasks

> For each fault the performs slashing over faulty validators at the end of an epoch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For each fault the protocol performs slashing over faulty validators at the end of an epoch.
```

?

How it works:

> - checks the total number of faults committed by **all**  validators in the epoch, counting the number of fault proofs in the slashing queue

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- checks the total number of faults committed by **all**  validators in the epoch, counting the number of fault proofs in the slashing queue. This serves the purpose of quantifying collusion.
```

- applies slashing for each fault in the slashing queue:
  - computes the slashing rate to apply, taking into account the number of fault offences committed in the epoch,
  - applies slashing to the offending validator's stake,
  - adds the reporting validators' to the array of reward beneficiaries that will receive rewards for offence reporting,

> - rewards are then distributed to the `treasury` account of the reporting validator as the last block of the epoch is finalised. Reporting validator self-bonded and delegated stakeholders _pro rata_ to their bonded stake amount. If the validator `treasury` account.

Reviewer 2: > Reporting validator self-bonded and delegated stakeholders _pro rata_ to their bonded stake amount. If the validator `treasury` account.

There is something missing here

Author: Error. This bullet point has been corrected to:

>- rewards are then distributed to the `treasury` account of the reporting validator as the last block of the epoch is finalised. Reporting validator self-bonded and delegated stakeholders receive a share of the rewards _pro rata_ to their bonded stake amount. If the rewards transfer to the validator `treasury` account fails, then the rewards are sent to the Autonity Protocol's community `treasury` account.

---

i.e. per Accountability.sol:

https://github.com/autonity/autonity/blob/v0.12.1/autonity/solidity/contracts/Accountability.sol#L122C8-L124C8

Author: Please see commit 2401d40bc56baeb2145b5857c022b9a41d88eefb

- `_success` - boolean flag indicating if proof verification succeeded or failed
- `_offender` - validator identifier address of the fault offender
- `_ruleId` - ID of the accountability rule tested
- `_block` - number of the block in which the fault occurred
- `_messageHash` - cryptographic hash of the main fault evidence, the `rawProof`.

Based on the verification outcome, constraint checks are applied:

- the raw proof verification passed: `_success` is `true`
- there are no mismatches between the event data and the verified raw proof data fields:
  - the returned `_offender` and event `offender` address values match
  - the returned `_ruleId` and event `rule` identifier values match
- the`_block` number returned by the verification is less than the current `block.number` - the proof is for a historical and not future event

- depending on event type, specific constraint checks are applied:

  - if `FaultProof`, then:
    - the severity of the fault event is greater than the severity of the offender's current slashing history for the epoch.

>     <!-- - the validator has not already been slashed for a fault with a higher severity in the proof's epoch. -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  - if `Accusation`, then:
    - the severity of the fault event is greater than the severity of the offender's current slashing history for the epoch

>     <!-- - the validator has not already been slashed for a fault with a higher severity in the proof's epoch. -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
